# Intro - Predicting stock market activity with Reddit sentiment analysis - Aixchange

Objective:  
We're curious about the degree of impact that retail investors have on the stock market. With the rise in popularity of trading platforms designed for the average joe, like Robinhood and WeBull, we've also seen unprecedented amount of retail trading volume in the market, with retail investors overtaking quant hedge funds in 2019. In line with our curiosity, we've designed the following objective for this project:

> To find whether popular sentiment towards stocks on the r/wallstreetbets subreddit positively correlates with the stocks' direction of price change at market close after various periods (end-of-day, end-of-week, and end-of-month). We will focus on the US stock market, i.e. tickers available for trading on NASDAQ and NYSE, over a period of a month.

Details:  
In particular, we want to look at posts with a title containing the string "What Are Your Moves Tomorrow", as user activity on this topic purportedly predicts movement in the stock market. Then, a regression is run on the actual market activity of mentioned stocks one day after the post.

Time period:  
28 February 2023 00:00:00 GMT – 31 March 2023 00:00:00 GMT  
_Rationale: Most recently completed month_

Hypothesis:  
The sentiment of the community active on r/wallstreetbets does not constitute a force coordinated enough to move the market against the currents generated by other retail investors, let alone bulge bracket firms, quantitative hedge funds, and market makers. Instead, we predict that by regressing the biggest movers of the previous day against the most commonly discussed stocks the next day, we will see that Redditors' sentiments are influenced by historical market activity.